README.md, before:

# @unrealsoftware/node_udp
A basic & lightweight Node.JS module supporting binary communication via plain UDP with useful read/write methods.

Available via NPM:
https://www.npmjs.com/package/@unrealsoftware/node_udp


## What this module is good for?
It's a wrapper around the Node.js core module "dgram" and provides some simple read/write methods so you don't have to mess with byte buffers directly. You can use it to quickly get a UDP server up and running with very little code. Also it has no depedencies to any third party modules.

#### Currently comes with read/write methods for the following data types:
- `readByte` / `writeByte` UInt8 / byte / unsigned int (1 byte) with value range 0 to 255
- `readShort` / `writeShort` UInt16LE / ushort / unsigned int (2 bytes) with value range 0 to 65,535
- `readInt` / `writeInt` Int32LE / int / signed int (4 bytes) with value range -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647
- `readLong` / `writeLong` Int64LE / long / signed int (8 bytes) with value range -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807
- `readFloat` / `writeFloat` FloatLE / float / single precision floating-point (4 bytes)
- `readDouble` / `writeDouble` DoubleLE / double / double precision floating-point (8 bytes)
- `readSString` / `writeSString` short ANSI ASCII string with up to 255 chars, length encoded with byte prefix (1 byte + 1 byte per char)
- `readString` / `writeString` ANSI ASCII string with up to 65,535 chars, length encoded with ushort prefix  (2 bytes + 1 byte per char)

:information_source: All numbers are read/written with little endian (LE) byte order!

:heavy_check_mark: The module also provides automatic recovery. It closes and re-binds the socket if any error occurs. This feature can be disabled.


## Limitations
We are talking about plain binary UDP here. Low level networking. No extra protocol on top. This means it comes with the typical UDP features/limitations:
- Unreliable: Messages can get lost. No acknowledgement or re-send mechanism.
- No guaranteed order: Messages can arrive in any order (or not at all).
- Message size limitation: Max. size of a message is limited by the MTU (which is determined by used hard- and software). From my experience keeping the payload size below ~1200 bytes should work fine in most cases.
- Currently the string methods are for sending ANSI ASCII strings only. UTF-8 or other encodings could be added easily though.


## Sample Usage
Here's a server which receives messages, reads the first byte and sends it back:
```javascript
// import the module
const NodeUdp = require('@unrealsoftware/node_udp');

// create a server listening on port 54321
const udp = new NodeUdp(onResponse, 54321);

// handle incoming messages
function onResponse(data, length, addr, port) {
  console.log(`Received msg from ${addr}:${port} with length ${length}`);
  if (length > 0) {
    const byte = data.readByte()
    console.log(`First byte is ${byte}`);
    
    // send response
    udp.startResponse();
    udp.outStream.writeByte(byte);
    udp.sendResponse();
  }
}
```

## MIT License
Do with this whatever you want. No limitations. Please keep the copyright notice though. See LICENSE for details.

Commit message:

More updates to readme.md

README.md, after:

# @unrealsoftware/node_udp
A basic & lightweight Node.JS module supporting binary communication via plain UDP with useful read/write methods.

Available via NPM:
https://www.npmjs.com/package/@unrealsoftware/node_udp


## What this module is good for?
It's a wrapper around the Node.js core module "dgram" and provides some simple read/write methods so you don't have to mess with byte buffers directly. You can use it to quickly get a UDP server up and running with very little code. Also it has no depedencies to any third party modules.

#### Currently comes with read/write methods for the following data types:
- `readByte` / `writeByte` UInt8 / byte / unsigned int (1 byte) with value range 0 to 255
- `readShort` / `writeShort` UInt16LE / ushort / unsigned int (2 bytes) with value range 0 to 65,535
- `readInt` / `writeInt` Int32LE / int / signed int (4 bytes) with value range -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647
- `readLong` / `writeLong` Int64LE / long / signed int (8 bytes) with value range -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807
- `readFloat` / `writeFloat` FloatLE / float / single precision floating-point (4 bytes)
- `readDouble` / `writeDouble` DoubleLE / double / double precision floating-point (8 bytes)
- `readSString` / `writeSString` short ANSI ASCII string with up to 255 chars, length encoded with byte prefix (1 byte + 1 byte per char)
- `readString` / `writeString` ANSI ASCII string with up to 65,535 chars, length encoded with ushort prefix  (2 bytes + 1 byte per char)

:information_source: All numbers are read/written with little endian (LE) byte order!

:heavy_check_mark: The module also provides automatic recovery. It closes and re-binds the socket if any error occurs. This feature can be disabled.


## Limitations
We are talking about plain binary UDP here. Low level networking. No extra protocol on top. This means it comes with the typical UDP features/limitations:
- Unreliable: Messages can get lost. No acknowledgement or re-send mechanism.
- No guaranteed order: Messages can arrive in any order (or not at all).
- Message size limitation: Max. size of a message is limited by the MTU (which is determined by used hard- and software). From my experience keeping the payload size below ~1200 bytes should work fine in most cases.
- Currently only a few popular data types are supported and they are all little endian. Support for big endian and more types could be added easily.
- Currently the string methods are for sending ANSI ASCII strings only. UTF-8 or other encodings could be added easily though.

## Sample
Here's a server which receives messages, reads the first byte and sends it back:
```javascript
// import the module
const NodeUdp = require('@unrealsoftware/node_udp');

// create a server listening on port 54321
const udp = new NodeUdp(onResponse, 54321);

// handle incoming messages
function onResponse(data, length, addr, port) {
  console.log(`Received msg from ${addr}:${port} with length ${length}`);
  if (length > 0) {
    const byte = data.readByte()
    console.log(`First byte is ${byte}`);
    
    // send response
    udp.startResponse();
    udp.outStream.writeByte(byte);
    udp.sendResponse();
  }
}
```

## Constructor
The `NodeUdp` constructor has 4 parameters:
```javascript
const udp = new NodeUdp(onResponse, startPort = -1, rebindOnError = true, rebindDelay = 3000)
```
- `onResponse`: The response callback. Mandatory. See "Reading Messages" for details.
- `startPort` (optional): The port the UDP socket will be bound to on construction. If you don't provide a port you have to bind the socket manually using `udp.bindSocket(port)`.
- `rebindOnError` (optional): Try to bind the socket again after an error? This defaults to true. Set to false if you don't want the socket to be bound automatically.
- `rebindDelay` (optional): Delay (in milliseconds) after which the program will attempt to bind the socket again after an error occurred. Defaults to 3000 ms (3 milliseconds). Not relevant if `rebindOnError` is false.

## Reading Messages
Messages are read in the response callback you specify as the first parameter in the constructor of `NodeUdp`. It has these parameters:
- `data` (StreamBuffer): The data you received. You can use the read-methods mentioned above to read this data. Before reading you can use `data.avail()` to check if enough bytes are left for reading. Alternatively you can use `data.canRead()` which returns true if at least one readable byte is left.
- `length` (number): The length (in bytes) of data. You can also use `data.length()` to retrieve this value.
- `addr` (string): The address of the sender of the message. `udp.srcAddrees` will have the same value.
- `port` (number): The port of the sender of the message. `udp.srcPort` will have the same value.

## Sending Messages
Sending a message happens in 3 steps:
- A call to `udp.startResponse()` which clears the contents of `udp.outStream`. You can skip this call if you want to send the same data to multiple addresses.
- Writing data. This happens via `udp.outStream.writeX` with writeX being one of the write methods mentioned above. e.g. `udp.outStream.writeString('Hello, world!')`. You can call as many write methods as you want. The data will be written in the same order you call the methods. The recipient has to read it in the same order. Make sure that you don't write too much data into a single message (MTU limits).
- Calling `udp.sendResponse()` will send the data to the address and port of the last sender. Alternatively you can use `udp.sendResponseTo(addr, port)` to send the message to a specified address and port.

:warning: Sending messages will fail with an error message if the socket is not bound. You can check this with `udp.isBound`.

## MIT License
Do with this whatever you want. No limitations. Please keep the copyright notice though. See LICENSE for details.

Made with :green_heart: in :anchor: Hamburg, Germany
